build/terraform/aws/README.md, before:

# terraform

This directory contains Terraform configuration files for deploying Substation to AWS.

## Using Terraform

An overview on how Terraform is used and the write, plan, apply workflow is available [here](https://www.terraform.io/intro).

Please use the official [Terraform documentation](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs) for further details on using Terraform to deploy AWS applications or for boiler plate examples.

## Modules

Due to the potentially endless number of deployment configurations, Substation comes with Terraform modules that act as component templates for different parts of the system. These modules are designed to be flexible enough to support every known deployment configuration. For an example deployment, see `example.tf` .

### API Gateway

This module is used as a template for deploying new API Gateway endpoints. 

Read more about API Gateway [here](https://aws.amazon.com/api-gateway/).

#### Kinesis

This module creates an API Gateway that sends a record to a Kinesis Data Stream. To prevent hot shards, the partition key is the request ID of the HTTP request.

#### Lambda

This module creates an API Gateway that invokes and sends a record to a Lambda function.

### DynamoDB

This module is used as a template for deploying new DynamoDB tables with autoscaling enabled. These tables have [time to live](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/TTL.html) enabled and users can optionally use it by writing values to the `ttl` column.

Read more about DynamoDB [here](https://aws.amazon.com/dynamodb/).

### ECR

This module is used as a template for deploying new image repositories to the AWS Elastic Container Registry (ECR) service.

There are two things to be aware of when deploying new image repositories:

* Terraform does not manage the build and deployment of container images; after an image repository is created, then container build and upload should happen externally via Docker (see `build/docker` for more information)
* By default all Lambda deployments use containers, but a Lambda deployment will fail if the image repository is empty; prevent deployment failures by building and uploading images before deploying Lambda

Read more about ECR [here](https://aws.amazon.com/ecr/).

### Event Bridge

#### Lambda

This module is used to create Event Bridge rules that trigger a Lambda.

Read more about Event Bridge [here](https://aws.amazon.com/eventbridge/).

### IAM

This module is used to provide default Identity and Access Management (IAM) policies for the most commonly used permissions. We use this naming convention: [AWS service]\_[read|write|modify]\_policy. For example, the `kinesis_read_policy` grants all the permissions required to read from a provided Kinesis stream.

Read more about IAM policies [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/access_policies.html).

### IAM Attachment

This module is used to attach policies from the IAM module to resources used in a pipeline (such as Kinesis streams, KMS keys, DynamoDB tables, etc.). Separating policies and policy attachment allows for granular permission control. We recommend [granting least privilege](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/best-practices.html#grant-least-privilege) whenever possible.

### Kinesis

This module is used to create new Kinesis Data Streams (KDS) and accompanying CloudWatch alarms. The streams created by this module are intended to be used with Substation's autoscaling application -- this feature provides stream autoscaling at a significantly reduced cost compared to Kinesis Firehose.

For best practices, we recommend users deploy data pipelines that use two Kinesis streams: a stream for pre-processed (i.e., raw) data and a stream for post-processed (i.e., processed) data. This deployment strategy is useful for supporting concurrent access to data across many applications.

Read more about Kinesis Data Streams [here](https://aws.amazon.com/kinesis/data-streams/).

### KMS

This module is used to create encryption keys used across a deployment. Any number of keys can be made, but by default we create one key that is shared by all encrypted resources and data.

Read more about the Key Management Service [here](https://aws.amazon.com/kms/).

### Lambda

This module is used to create and manage Lambda, which is the recommended service for data processing. At release, the Lambda Substation app ( `cmd/aws/lambda/substation` ) supports these Lambda triggers:

* API Gateway
* Kinesis Data Streams
* SNS via S3
* S3

This module is flexible enough to deploy supporting apps (such as `cmd/aws/lambda/kinesis_autoscaling` ) and custom apps (such as apps that provide data enrichment functionality). When new Lambda are created with this module, an accompanying AppConfig configuration profile is created under the `substation` application.

Read more about AWS Lambda [here](https://aws.amazon.com/lambda/).

### S3

This module is used as a template for deploying new S3 buckets. These buckets are private and objects are encrypted.

Read more about S3 [here](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/).

#### WORM

This module creates a write once, read many (WORM) S3 bucket using [Object Lock](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/object-lock-overview.html) and applies the [Compliance](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/object-lock-overview.html#object-lock-retention-modes) retention mode setting. Objects written to these buckets _*cannot be deleted*_.

### SQS

This module is used for creating SQS queues. Queues can be standard or first-in-first-out (FIFO).

Read more about SQS [here](https://aws.amazon.com/sqs/).

Commit message:

feat!: Add Forward Compatibility for SNS (#21)
* feat!: add fwd compatibility for future SNS ingest

* refactor!: improve standardization on ingest meta

* docs: update TF module README

build/terraform/aws/README.md, after:

# terraform

This directory contains Terraform configuration files for deploying Substation to AWS.

## Using Terraform

An overview on how Terraform is used and the write, plan, apply workflow is available [here](https://www.terraform.io/intro).

Please use the official [Terraform documentation](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs) for further details on using Terraform to deploy AWS applications or for boiler plate examples.

## Modules

Due to the potentially endless number of deployment configurations, Substation comes with Terraform modules that act as component templates for different parts of the system. These modules are designed to be flexible enough to support every known deployment configuration. For an example deployment, see `example.tf` .

### API Gateway

This module is used as a template for deploying new API Gateway endpoints. 

Read more about API Gateway [here](https://aws.amazon.com/api-gateway/).

#### Kinesis

This module creates an API Gateway that sends a record to a Kinesis Data Stream. To prevent hot shards, the partition key is the request ID of the HTTP request.

#### Lambda

This module creates an API Gateway that invokes and sends a record to a Lambda function.

### DynamoDB

This module is used as a template for deploying new DynamoDB tables with autoscaling enabled. These tables have [time to live](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/TTL.html) enabled and users can optionally use it by writing values to the `ttl` column.

Read more about DynamoDB [here](https://aws.amazon.com/dynamodb/).

### ECR

This module is used as a template for deploying new image repositories to the AWS Elastic Container Registry (ECR) service.

There are two things to be aware of when deploying new image repositories:

* Terraform does not manage the build and deployment of container images; after an image repository is created, then container build and upload should happen externally via Docker (see `build/docker` for more information)
* By default all Lambda deployments use containers, but a Lambda deployment will fail if the image repository is empty; prevent deployment failures by building and uploading images before deploying Lambda

Read more about ECR [here](https://aws.amazon.com/ecr/).

### Event Bridge

#### Lambda

This module is used to create Event Bridge rules that trigger a Lambda.

Read more about Event Bridge [here](https://aws.amazon.com/eventbridge/).

### IAM

This module is used to provide default Identity and Access Management (IAM) policies for the most commonly used permissions. We use this naming convention: [AWS service]\_[read|write|modify]\_policy. For example, the `kinesis_read_policy` grants all the permissions required to read from a provided Kinesis stream.

Read more about IAM policies [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/access_policies.html).

### IAM Attachment

This module is used to attach policies from the IAM module to resources used in a pipeline (such as Kinesis streams, KMS keys, DynamoDB tables, etc.). Separating policies and policy attachment allows for granular permission control. We recommend [granting least privilege](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/best-practices.html#grant-least-privilege) whenever possible.

### Kinesis

This module is used to create new Kinesis Data Streams (KDS) and accompanying CloudWatch alarms. The streams created by this module are intended to be used with Substation's autoscaling application -- this feature provides stream autoscaling at a significantly reduced cost compared to Kinesis Firehose.

For best practices, we recommend users deploy data pipelines that use two Kinesis streams: a stream for pre-processed (i.e., raw) data and a stream for post-processed (i.e., processed) data. This deployment strategy is useful for supporting concurrent access to data across many applications.

Read more about Kinesis Data Streams [here](https://aws.amazon.com/kinesis/data-streams/).

### KMS

This module is used to create encryption keys used across a deployment. Any number of keys can be made, but by default we create one key that is shared by all encrypted resources and data.

Read more about the Key Management Service [here](https://aws.amazon.com/kms/).

### Lambda

This module is used to create and manage Lambda, which is the recommended service for data processing. At release, the Lambda Substation app ( `cmd/aws/lambda/substation` ) supports these Lambda triggers:

* API Gateway
* Kinesis Data Streams
* SNS via S3
* S3

This module is flexible enough to deploy supporting apps (such as `cmd/aws/lambda/kinesis_autoscaling` ) and custom apps (such as apps that provide data enrichment functionality). When new Lambda are created with this module, an accompanying AppConfig configuration profile is created under the `substation` application.

Read more about AWS Lambda [here](https://aws.amazon.com/lambda/).

### S3

This module is used as a template for deploying new S3 buckets. These buckets are private and objects are encrypted.

Read more about S3 [here](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/).

#### WORM

This module creates a write once, read many (WORM) S3 bucket using [Object Lock](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/object-lock-overview.html) and applies the [Compliance](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/object-lock-overview.html#object-lock-retention-modes) retention mode setting. Objects written to these buckets _*cannot be deleted*_.

### SNS

This module is used for creating SNS topics. Topics can be standard or first-in-first-out (FIFO).

Read more about SNS [here](https://aws.amazon.com/sns/).

### SQS

This module is used for creating SQS queues. Queues can be standard or first-in-first-out (FIFO).

Read more about SQS [here](https://aws.amazon.com/sqs/).
